---
title: Thing's I've tried
published: true
date: 25/09/2024
---

I often talk about things going wrong but let's talk about the things I've
tried, no failure, no success, just things I found cool and tried to do.

> Note: Everything here is still in the realm of programming

I don't know if I should do this in terms of a timeline or alphabetically by
project so I'll just go with timeline.

I don't plan to bore you by explaining how a to-do app I built right out of
college got me to the path of success but this is more a timeline of domains and
things in development that got me into it.

### 2013

Mid 2013, Right before I started college (~17 years), witnessed one of my
classmates playing around with the HTC Forest and he was talking about this
custom ROM that he'd installed on it. Found that cool, got home, took my galaxy
Y and got to work the next few weeks till I built my own Custom ROM somewhere at
the end of the month.

- [DS V1.0](https://xdaforums.com/t/rom-ds-rom-v1-links-added-stable-statusbarcolormod-added-update1.2343989/)-
  Well SSSidGGG => Siddharth Gelera - Very creative, I know.

Was tied to hacking through java code, reverse engineering the android system to
fix and tweak things for the ROM. The ROM itself was pretty stable but then I
didn't really give it any more time of day and moved onto other things in life.

### 2014

Still interested in programming and development but wasn't sure what I wanted to
do (still don't really know that though...), Someone introduces me to Arch Linux
and I was someone who just preferred Ubuntu, specifically because of how smooth
Gnome 2 was. I had a pretty beat up PC so the performance mattered and learning
about Arch made a small part of my dream come true. Making my own OS. Now the
_own OS_ part is pretty far fetched for someone who wasn't as smart as the other
kids but it was a fun dream to have. I'm pretty sure most developers wish to do
it at some point.

And well, I was able to get the small part come true as I built a POC
distribution of what I wished arch was. There were a few patches here and there
to make sure older kernel ran with the shitty WIFI adapter I had but that
was 2014.

- [DevilzArch](https://sourceforge.net/projects/devilzarch/), don't ask me why I
  named it that, I just had a weird liking toward the names devil, ghost, etc. I
  still have my phone named as Ghost Mini ...

### 2015

3rd year of college, I didn't do much but continued running around different
linux distributions and playing around with Python to build a few tiny backend
apps. The primary one was a clone of facebook because it was famous back then
and I didn't understand how the PubSub messaging server that was used; worked.

So I built a tiny chat server replicating something very similar to Facebook's
messenger at the time. It was the just the backend. I sucked at design at this
point.

### 2016-2017

Most of time went with projects and submissions so I didn't get to build or pick
up anything fancy though this was when I built something similar to what you
might call a GUI for brew. Except it wasn't for brew.

I was still into linux but then package management for most source built apps
was shit and brew didn't work for linux I guess , or I didn't know about
homebrew back then but the package manager approach didn't work for a lot of
software that was out in the open.

The idea was very similar to homebrew where I'd maintain the manifest of how
something should be built and where it needs to be installed and this would be
scripted in python cause I was writing this in python. It had a GUI that would
show progress, something similar to what you see in Mac's App Store around 2016.

Pretty much built the POC and a decent looking GUI before a fellow linux
enthusiast asked me to switch the whole thing to electron because it was cooler
to write it in electron. So, I did. First time writing javascript and I start
with electron....

Luckily, I was able to get it all working with the existing python backend to
install the packages and also what I submitted as my college project for the 3rd
year.

### 2017-2018

Getting into javascript, opened the door for full fledged web development and
the start of me torturing myself for the next 7 years. I still submitted a
version of the Arch linux distro as my project for 4th and final year at college
but that was the last time I played around trying to fix linux internals on
different hardware. Huge respect for the folks that maintain the kernel. I
almost broke my brain trying to figure everything out.

2017 is also the year that I graduated and got a job working for firm and did
some casual web dev work. The usual fighting with Angular 1.6 till you do it the
"non angular way" and push it to production. React was gaining a lot of
popularity in India during this time and jobs started shifting from MEAN stack
to MERN stack.

For the react lovers, you have 0 idea how much boilerplate code the initial
versions of redux and redux-saga took.

Fortunately or Unfortunately, I stuck to web development till 2020, I found
other things that were cooler but I didn't really get time from work since I
worked in startups as the founding / core engineer and hardly gave any
importance to sleep.

### 2020-2021

The "I can build everything" phase started around here. I had lost my marbles
completely around this time. I built random websites, decided that everyone else
was just stupid and didn't know how to build products and that any product that I
found online, I could build it alone.

This gave life to a few products listed below

- A invoicing system - Invy (never went live because I forgot about it after I
  spent 2 weeks building it and decided the MVP was all that was needed)
- An idea tracker - this did go live with heroku's free plan and I used it for a
  while till I figured I was better off just writing things in Apple Notes.
- An open source job listing system - I should probably bring it back but this
  was one of the few that I kept live for a while and just posted random jobs
  from everywhere to see if I would get users. Hard luck there because I didn't
  really post about it anywhere other than maybe dev.to and my blog.
- A time tracker - TillWhen, the 4th product during my craziness spree. This did
  have users since Toggl was super costly and the primary 20 users were from the
  company I worked for, Fountane. It slowly got a few users but I was not able to
  keep the development up with breaking changes from NextJS and because I didn't
  really use the time tracking app myself and it was just something I built in
  the craze of building stuff. We shut it down after ~2.5 years or keeping it up
  and around 180 users in which I guess ~100 were active.

### 2021-2024

In this duration, I build a POC for a programming language, a few MacOS apps, a
few go based CLI tools (including the one that builds this website), a few go
based build tooling (Goblin.run) and tried to port react-native's RAW SDK to
support rendering with preact, helped maintain a few OSS libraries that
involved working with the Javascript AST, written libraries that manipulate the
AST's to generate web components that become interactive on load (preact
island's tooling).

Simple stuff.

On the whole, I've tried systems programming, web development, mobile
development, native desktop app development, developer tooling and a few more
things that I might've forgotten about and I'm yet to find the one thing that I
enjoy.

So, just in case you think you are lagging behind and aren't able to find something that you'd like to do for the rest of your life? Trust me, you aren't the only one and it's totally fine. 

That's it for now, 
Adios!