---
title: Updates (May 2024)
published: true
date: 30/05/2024
---

A few things happened this month and we are now done with whatever work I had
outside of my development life.

Since we are back, a few things have gotten attention and are being worked on,
here's the log for that.

### jotai-form

There's isn't a huge update here, just started fixing existing issues and adding
a few more DX helpers, one of which is being able to use `zod` schema's to
create the form atom for you.

### eslint-plugin-valtio

This plugin has always been slow in terms of my development focus but looks like
there's a lot of changes here and there in both eslint and in the original
implementation of valtio so there's things that need to be fixed here, working
on that.

### alvu

The tool that powers this website is now in it's new form and i'm still
profiling and working on migrating this website to it first to understand all
the areas that I've missed in the re-write.

### goblin

As always, goblin is gaining attention and that calls for the requirement of
performance and caching improvements for goblin. It currently cached the binary
by letting go handle the build cache and then releasing it after 12 hours to
have fresh builds even for the older versions of a package (Storage size
limitations, since it's being run from my pocket for now and no one has to pay
anything for it).

Though, caching implementation using MinIO is complete and under stress tests to
make sure parallel build requests don't create issues.

That's mostly it in terms of OSS work as of now, it's been slow for the month
because of other responsibilities but hopefully I get to have more fun in the
next few months with all the projects I have.

That's it for now, Adios humans!
