---
title: A Failure
published: true
date: 26/06/2024
---

We talk so much about success and celebrating it and we forget that there is a
big hidden part behind it. We all have different definitions of success and i'm
glad we have that choice though I'm not so sure about how we all try to hide our
failures.

A big part of our life involves going through small and random failure and yet
we decide it's necessary to keep it hidden to look good. Which makes sense,
since you wouldn't get a job if your resume is just filled with failures.

Though, I'm not fond of the fact that it makes us seem like we aren't human and
that failure isn't okay.

I've heard people say this to me a few times in the past few weeks in lieu of
recent layoffs, "I see that you aren't worried. Oh obviously, you'll just get
another job like it's nothing". Usually, I ignore it and move on but considering
the frequency of this statement; I had to give it another thought. I realised
that people don't know the other side of the story at all and that's on me
because like everyone else, I never spoke much about the things that didn't go
right.

Let's try to change that a bit. Let's see what the generic definition of success
is:

> The achievement of something desired, planned, or attempted

> The gaining of fame or prosperity

That's from Google. Here's a list of a few failures of mine, based on that

1. I'm going to involve things that I do sometimes wish I had
   1. Not a master of any domain
   2. 0 successful side projects
   3. 0 successful oss projects
   4. Haven't built anything remotely impactful
2. Lol, not famous at all, so a big failure here

Now, let's put down my definition of success (the post would be of no meaning
otherwise)

> Growth in overall knowledge and a decent income to be able to code and make
> things I love

A pretty boring and "trying to sound smart" kinda definition but now let's see
the chain of failures since the goal is a long running one.

#### 2017

- Lack of knowledge of integrating Google API's in Python cost me my internship
- Wasn't a decent developer in Angular 1.6 resulting in incomplete work and low
  quality output

#### 2018

- No job after about 200 applications
- 0 idea of how the market in India worked
- Failed to even land an interview

#### 2019

- Too dependent on the senior to help solve the issue
- Sucked at debugging the most basic things
- Never worked with a system at scale and used that as an excuse to justify my
  dumbness

To be fair, there's a lot more as I got deeper into the tech industry but,
that's not the point of this.

If you came to meet me and these are the only points I told you about, you'd
probably think I'm dumb, depressed and just like complaining and blaming the
world. You wouldn't expect me to be working for NearForm or someone maintaining
quite a few OSS projects.

The point isn't that I've failed in both the generic sense and in the my own
definition but to put them down and see that just failures don't show the
complete picture.

Putting down just one side of the story doesn't make sense and never will, the
only kind of people impressed by just listening to all your achievements are
people living in an land of delusion where every expert just wants to join their
firm/company because it's the best there is.

I probably should write my achievements, I'd look like a depressed lunatic if I
didn't. Though, readers of the blog know that I'm not depressed and probably
just a lunatic.

End of the day,

- understand that it's okay.
- understand that blaming the world or other people will not work for you.
  - (on a different note, I've seen it work for people who wish to climb up the
    corp ladder and if that's the definition of success for you then I'm
    probably the wrong person for advice)
- understand that you need to acknowledge the failure to be able to work on it.

I wouldn't be able to learn and tap into different domains, work on random
projects that no one but I use if I just ignored my past and was entitled to
whatever little I had accomplished. It's fun to celebrate the little
achievements, just don't get lost in it.

Also don't get lost in things that don't go as planned, not everything has to
work out according to your and that's the fun part about it. It'd get repetitive
and boring otherwise.

That's it for the now, Adios!
