---
title: The Pixel 3a
published: true
date: 04/08/2024
---

No, this isn't a review for the Pixel 3a.

## Context

If you've met me in real life, you've seen me with my tiny phone the 12 mini,
and as much as I like the phone itself the battery degradation has gotten me
frustrated from using the phone more than once and so as always I carry a backup
phone. The backup phone has been the Nokia 5310 (2020) version which is a very
powerful dumbphone for what it costs but it is no longer a viable option since
the 2G towers in India have started to shut down as well and the 3G towers were
never that great anyway.

Anyway, that's part of the reason but I would need a new backup phone sooner or
later and I saw a listing on Amazon for Pixel 3a for a price of 13k INR and
that's all it took.

## After effects of De-googling

You saw that coming, didn't you?

Back to topic, Pixels are one of the few phones where installing a Custom ROM
doesn't take too much work and it's fairly documented and I didn't need another
device tracking the shit out of me so I had to do this. First, we browsed
through GrapheneOS to see that it no longer supported Pixel 3a so the next
option was to check out CalyxOS and I got lucky.

I'm not going to write the entire process of installing the ROM since their
website does a really good job of explaining everything. Also, not responsible
if you end up bricking your device.

We now have a device that doesn't have any software from Google and instead
provides various ways to install things that you might need and play store is
the only way to get it.

In my case, here's the apps I ended up installing which were totally FOSS

- Waze (Navigation and Maps)
- 9Gag (memes)
- Uber Lite (no other lighter option)

And nothing else, that's all that's on that device from the Play Store (Aurora
Store), and here's a short experience of using this for over 2 months.

### Battery Life

Surprisingly lasts more than 2 days on idling and light usage for the above
mentioned apps. It's been the perfect phone to just have in the pocket and since
the charging is done with USB C, and my macbook charges with USB C I didn't add
another cable to the bag ( I already carry, 3 USB C cables and a Lightning
Adapter for the phone).

### Navigation

Calyx adds open alternatives to most things so while Waze works, there's
glitches where the location data doesn't update and the same is with Uber and
Uber Lite where the directional data of the app isn't updated properly so it
ended up being a problem so this might be a bit of an issue. The default
OpenStreet based maps is good enough to help you around if you can navigate
using a map but if you are very dependent on apps like Google Maps then you
might have to rethink using this.

Just to re-iterate, waze does work but there might be certain glitches, it's
easy to just close the app and open it again to get it sorted but it's there and
might not be convenient for everyone else.

### Calling

It's a 4G LTE compatible phone so there's no problem with the bands and
connectivity wherever I was going and I wasn't worried about having to figure
out a harder way to get in touch with people if needed. The LTE speeds are not
as good since the frequencies have had some changes since the device was
originally released. It also has ESIM support if you wish to use that instead.

### Music

Manually archiving music into the phone has definitely been fun but then it
doesn't have extendable storage so that's still a limitation you have deal with.

### Summary

De-googling to this extent is probably not for all and becomes rather
inconvenient for most but I guess I've lived it with for most of my life so it
wasn't that hard. Do I recommend someone else doing this? Not really. You might
thing there's too much initial effort for very low ROI and if you aren't worried
about that then do go for it!

### The ideal

I still think the ideal phone for me would be something that looked similar to a
Blackberry and came with basic AOSP android. Android itself is customisable
enough at the base level that you don't have to spend money creating a custom OS
and then charging the crowd for that custom OS.

Anyway, it's an ideal one but let's see if I get frustrated enough to build one
at some point in life

That's all for now, Adios
